README.md, before:

# mechanic

## Purpose

[nginx](http://nginx.org) is a popular reverse proxy server among node developers. It's common to set up one or more node apps listening on high-numbered ports and use nginx virtual hosting and reverse proxy features to pass traffic to node. nginx can also serve static files better than node can, and it has battle-testd round-robin load balancing features.

We've boiled down our favorite configuration recipes for nginx to a simple utility that takes care of spinning up and shutting down proxies for new node sites on a server. It can also handle load balancing, canonical redirects, direct delivery of static files and https configuration. It takes the place of manually editing nginx configuration files.

## Install

**Step One:** install `nginx` on your Linux server.

Under Ubuntu Linux that would be:

```
apt-get install nginx
```

Make sure Apache isn't in the way, already listening on port 80. Remove it really, really thoroughly. Or reconfigure it for an alternate port, like 9898, and set it up as a fallback as described below.

**Step Two:**

```
npm install -g mechanic
```

NOTE: `mechanic` will reconfigure nginx after each command given to it. A strong effort is made not to mess up other uses of nginx. Mechanic's nginx configuration output is written to `/etc/nginx/conf.d/mechanic.conf`, where both Debian-flavored and Red Hat-flavored Linux will load it. No other nginx configuration files are touched. You can change the folder where `mechanic.conf` is written, see below.

**Step Three:**

Go nuts.

Let's add a single proxy that talks to one node process, which is listening on port 3000 on the same server (`localhost`):

*All commands must be run as root.*

## Adding a site

```
mechanic add mysite --host=mysite.com --backends=3000
```

Replace `mysite` with a good "shortname" for *your* site— letters and numbers and underscores only, no leading digits.

`mechanic` will reconfigure and restart `nginx` as you go along and remember everything you've asked it to include.

## Aliases: alternate hostnames

Next we decide we want some aliases: other hostnames that deliver the same content. It's common to do this in the pre-launch period. With the `update` command we can add new options to a site without starting from scratch:

```
mechanic update mysite --aliases=www.mysite.com,mysite.temporary.com
```

## Canonicalization: redirecting to the "real name"

In production, it's better to redirect traffic so that everyone sees the same domain. Let's start redirecting from our aliases rather than keeping them in the address bar:

```
mechanic update mysite --canonical=true
```

## Setting a default site

We've realized this site should be the default site for the entire server. If a request arrives with a hostname that doesn't match any `--host` or `--aliases` list, it should always go to this site, redirecting first if the site is canonical. We can do that with `default`:

```
mechanic update mysite --default=true
```

**Warning:** If your server came with a default website already configured,
like the `server` block that appears in `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` in
CentOS 7, you will need to comment that out to use this feature. `mechanic`
does not mess with the rest of your nginx settings, that is up to you.

## Fast static file delivery

Let's score a big performance win by serving our static files directly with nginx. This is simple: if a file matching the URL exists, nginx will serve it directly. Otherwise the request is still sent to node. All we have to do is tell nginx where our static files live.

```
mechanic update mysite --static=/opt/stagecoach/apps/mysite/current/public
```

*Browsers will cache the static files for up to 7 days. That's a good thing, but if you use this feature make sure any dynamically generated files have new filenames on each new deployment.*

## Load balancing

Traffic is surging, so we've set up four node processes to take advantage of four cores. They are listening on ports 3000, 3001, 3002 and 3003. Let's tell nginx to distribute traffic to all of them:

```
mechanic update mysite --backends=3000,3001,3002,3003
```

### Across two servers

This time we want to load-balance between two separate back-end servers, each of which is listening on two ports:

```
mechanic update mysite --backends=192.168.1.2:3000,192.168.1.2:3001,192.168.1.3:3000,192.168.1.3:3001
```

*You can use hostnames too.*

## Secure sites

Now we've added ecommerce and we need a secure site:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=true
```

Now nginx will serve the site with `https` (as well as `http`) and look for `mysite.cer` and `mysite.key` in the folder `/etc/nginx/certs`.

[See the nginx docs on how to handle intermediate certificates.](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/configuring_https_servers.html)

## Redirecting to the secure site

Next we decide we want the site to be secure all the time, redirecting any traffic that arrives at the insecure site:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=true --redirect-to-https=true
```

## Shutting off HTTPS

Now we've decided we don't want ecommerce anymore. Let's shut that off:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=false
```

## Removing a site

Now let's remove the site completely:

```
mechanic remove mysite
```

## Disabling options

You can disable any previously set option, such as `static`, by setting it to `false` or the empty string.

## Falling back to Apache

If you also want to serve some content with Apache on the same server, first configure Apache to listen on port `9898` instead of `80`, then set up a default site for `mechanic` that forwards traffic there:

```javascript
mechanic add apache --host=dummy --ports=9898 --default=true
```

We still need a `host` setting even for a default site (TODO: remove this requirement).

Apache doesn't have to be your default. You could also use `--host` and set up individual sites to be forwarded to Apache.

## Global options

There are a few global options you might want to change. Here's how. The values shown are the defaults.

### conf: nginx configuration file location

```javascript
mechanic set conf /etc/nginx/conf.d
```

This is the folder where the `mechanic.conf` nginx configuration file
will be created. Note that both Red Hat and Debian-flavored Linux
load everything in this folder by default.

### restart: nginx restart command

```javascript
mechanic set restart "nginx -s reload"
```

The command to restart `nginx`.

*Don't forget the quotes if spaces are present.* That's just how the shell works, but it bears repeating.

### logs: webserver log file folder

```javascript
mechanic set logs /var/log/nginx
```

If this isn't where you want your nginx access and error log files for
each site, change the setting.

### bind: bind address

```javascript
mechanic set bind "*"
```

By default, `mechanic` tells nginx to accept traffic on all IP addresses assigned to the server. (`*` means "everything.") If this isn't what you want, set a specific ip address with `bind`.

*If you reset this setting to `*` make sure you quote it, so the shell doesn't give you a list of filenames.*

### template: custom nginx template file

```javascript
mechanic set template /etc/mechanic/custom.conf
```

You don't have to use our nginx configuration template.

Take a look at the file `template.conf` in the `nginx` npm module. It's just a [nunjucks](http://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) template that builds an `nginx` configuration based on your `mechanic` settings.

You can copy that template anywhere you like, make your own modifications, then use `mechanic set template` to tell `mechanic` where to find it.

### Lazy overrides

If you don't want to customize our template, check out the convenience override files that `mechanic` creates for you:

```
/etc/nginx/mechanic-overrides/myshortname/location
/etc/nginx/mechanic-overrides/myshortname/proxy
```

The first one is loaded inside the main `location` block, and is a good place to add something like CORS headers for static font files.

The second one is loaded inside the proxy server configuration.

These files start out empty; you can add whatever you like.

Of course, if this isn't enough flexibility for your needs, you can create a custom template.

## Refreshing your nginx configuration

Maybe you updated mechanic with `npm update -g mechanic` and you want our
latest configuration. Maybe you edited your custom template. Either way,
you want to rebuild your nginx configuration without changing any
settings:

```
mechanic refresh
```

## Resetting to the defaults

To completely reset mechanic, throwing away everything it knows:

```javascript
mechanic reset
```

*Warning:* like it says, this will completely reset your configuration and forget everything you've done. Don't do that unless you really want to.

## Listing your configuration settings

`mechanic list`

This gives you back commands sufficient to set them up the same way again. Great for copying to another server. Here's some sample output:

```
mechanic set restart "/usr/sbin/nginx -s reload"
mechanic add test --host=test.com --aliases=www.test.com --canonical=true --https=true
mechanic add test2 --host=test2.com --aliases=www.test2.com,test2-prelaunch.mycompany.com
```

If you want to wipe the configuration on another server before applying these commands there, use `mechanic reset`.

## Custom nginx templates

You don't have to use our nginx configuration template.

Take a look at the file `template.conf` in the `nginx` npm module. It's just a [nunjucks](http://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) template that builds an `nginx` configuration based on your `mechanic` settings.

## Storing the database in a different place

It's stored in `/var/lib/misc/mechanic.json`. That's [one hundred percent correct according to the filesystem hierarchy standard](http://www.pathname.com/fhs/pub/fhs-2.3.pdf), adhered to by all major Linux distributions and many other flavors of Unix. But if you absolutely insist, you can use the `--data` option to specify another location. You'll have to do it every time you run `mechanic`, though. That's why we only use this option for unit tests.

If necessary `mechanic` will create `/var/lib/misc`.

## Credits

`mechanic` was created to facilitate our work at [P'unk Avenue](http://punkave.com). We use it to host sites powered by [Apostrophe](https://apostrophenow.org).

## Changelog

0.1.10: the `boring` dependency was missing, this is fixed.

0.1.9: Accept `backend` as an alias for `backends`. Reject invalid hyphenated options passed to `add` and `update`, as their absence usually means you've mistyped something important. Don't crash nginx if there are no backends, just skip that site and print a warning. Use [boring](https://www.npmjs.com/package/boring) instead of `yargs`.

0.1.8: load convenience overrides from suitably named nginx configuration files.

0.1.7: set the ssl flag properly for nginx in the listen statement.

0.1.6: look in the documented place for SSL certificates (/etc/nginx/certs).

0.1.5: don't try to reject invalid arguments, as yargs helpfully introduces camel-cased versions of hyphenated arguments, causing false positives and breaking our hyphenated options. This isn't great; we should find out how to disable that behavior in yargs.

0.1.3: corrected documentation for Apache fallback strategy.

0.1.1, 0.1.2: `reset` command works.

0.1.0: initial release.

Commit message:

0.1.11: parse `host:port` correctly with the `--backends` option.

README.md, after:

# mechanic

## Purpose

[nginx](http://nginx.org) is a popular reverse proxy server among node developers. It's common to set up one or more node apps listening on high-numbered ports and use nginx virtual hosting and reverse proxy features to pass traffic to node. nginx can also serve static files better than node can, and it has battle-testd round-robin load balancing features.

We've boiled down our favorite configuration recipes for nginx to a simple utility that takes care of spinning up and shutting down proxies for new node sites on a server. It can also handle load balancing, canonical redirects, direct delivery of static files and https configuration. It takes the place of manually editing nginx configuration files.

## Install

**Step One:** install `nginx` on your Linux server.

Under Ubuntu Linux that would be:

```
apt-get install nginx
```

Make sure Apache isn't in the way, already listening on port 80. Remove it really, really thoroughly. Or reconfigure it for an alternate port, like 9898, and set it up as a fallback as described below.

**Step Two:**

```
npm install -g mechanic
```

NOTE: `mechanic` will reconfigure nginx after each command given to it. A strong effort is made not to mess up other uses of nginx. Mechanic's nginx configuration output is written to `/etc/nginx/conf.d/mechanic.conf`, where both Debian-flavored and Red Hat-flavored Linux will load it. No other nginx configuration files are touched. You can change the folder where `mechanic.conf` is written, see below.

**Step Three:**

Go nuts.

Let's add a single proxy that talks to one node process, which is listening on port 3000 on the same server (`localhost`):

*All commands must be run as root.*

## Adding a site

```
mechanic add mysite --host=mysite.com --backends=3000
```

Replace `mysite` with a good "shortname" for *your* site— letters and numbers and underscores only, no leading digits.

`mechanic` will reconfigure and restart `nginx` as you go along and remember everything you've asked it to include.

## Aliases: alternate hostnames

Next we decide we want some aliases: other hostnames that deliver the same content. It's common to do this in the pre-launch period. With the `update` command we can add new options to a site without starting from scratch:

```
mechanic update mysite --aliases=www.mysite.com,mysite.temporary.com
```

## Canonicalization: redirecting to the "real name"

In production, it's better to redirect traffic so that everyone sees the same domain. Let's start redirecting from our aliases rather than keeping them in the address bar:

```
mechanic update mysite --canonical=true
```

## Setting a default site

We've realized this site should be the default site for the entire server. If a request arrives with a hostname that doesn't match any `--host` or `--aliases` list, it should always go to this site, redirecting first if the site is canonical. We can do that with `default`:

```
mechanic update mysite --default=true
```

**Warning:** If your server came with a default website already configured,
like the `server` block that appears in `/etc/nginx/nginx.conf` in
CentOS 7, you will need to comment that out to use this feature. `mechanic`
does not mess with the rest of your nginx settings, that is up to you.

## Fast static file delivery

Let's score a big performance win by serving our static files directly with nginx. This is simple: if a file matching the URL exists, nginx will serve it directly. Otherwise the request is still sent to node. All we have to do is tell nginx where our static files live.

```
mechanic update mysite --static=/opt/stagecoach/apps/mysite/current/public
```

*Browsers will cache the static files for up to 7 days. That's a good thing, but if you use this feature make sure any dynamically generated files have new filenames on each new deployment.*

## Load balancing

Traffic is surging, so we've set up four node processes to take advantage of four cores. They are listening on ports 3000, 3001, 3002 and 3003. Let's tell nginx to distribute traffic to all of them:

```
mechanic update mysite --backends=3000,3001,3002,3003
```

### Across two servers

This time we want to load-balance between two separate back-end servers, each of which is listening on two ports:

```
mechanic update mysite --backends=192.168.1.2:3000,192.168.1.2:3001,192.168.1.3:3000,192.168.1.3:3001
```

*You can use hostnames too.*

## Secure sites

Now we've added ecommerce and we need a secure site:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=true
```

Now nginx will serve the site with `https` (as well as `http`) and look for `mysite.cer` and `mysite.key` in the folder `/etc/nginx/certs`.

[See the nginx docs on how to handle intermediate certificates.](http://nginx.org/en/docs/http/configuring_https_servers.html)

## Redirecting to the secure site

Next we decide we want the site to be secure all the time, redirecting any traffic that arrives at the insecure site:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=true --redirect-to-https=true
```

## Shutting off HTTPS

Now we've decided we don't want ecommerce anymore. Let's shut that off:

```
mechanic update mysite --https=false
```

## Removing a site

Now let's remove the site completely:

```
mechanic remove mysite
```

## Disabling options

You can disable any previously set option, such as `static`, by setting it to `false` or the empty string.

## Falling back to Apache

If you also want to serve some content with Apache on the same server, first configure Apache to listen on port `9898` instead of `80`, then set up a default site for `mechanic` that forwards traffic there:

```javascript
mechanic add apache --host=dummy --ports=9898 --default=true
```

We still need a `host` setting even for a default site (TODO: remove this requirement).

Apache doesn't have to be your default. You could also use `--host` and set up individual sites to be forwarded to Apache.

## Global options

There are a few global options you might want to change. Here's how. The values shown are the defaults.

### conf: nginx configuration file location

```javascript
mechanic set conf /etc/nginx/conf.d
```

This is the folder where the `mechanic.conf` nginx configuration file
will be created. Note that both Red Hat and Debian-flavored Linux
load everything in this folder by default.

### restart: nginx restart command

```javascript
mechanic set restart "nginx -s reload"
```

The command to restart `nginx`.

*Don't forget the quotes if spaces are present.* That's just how the shell works, but it bears repeating.

### logs: webserver log file folder

```javascript
mechanic set logs /var/log/nginx
```

If this isn't where you want your nginx access and error log files for
each site, change the setting.

### bind: bind address

```javascript
mechanic set bind "*"
```

By default, `mechanic` tells nginx to accept traffic on all IP addresses assigned to the server. (`*` means "everything.") If this isn't what you want, set a specific ip address with `bind`.

*If you reset this setting to `*` make sure you quote it, so the shell doesn't give you a list of filenames.*

### template: custom nginx template file

```javascript
mechanic set template /etc/mechanic/custom.conf
```

You don't have to use our nginx configuration template.

Take a look at the file `template.conf` in the `nginx` npm module. It's just a [nunjucks](http://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) template that builds an `nginx` configuration based on your `mechanic` settings.

You can copy that template anywhere you like, make your own modifications, then use `mechanic set template` to tell `mechanic` where to find it.

### Lazy overrides

If you don't want to customize our template, check out the convenience override files that `mechanic` creates for you:

```
/etc/nginx/mechanic-overrides/myshortname/location
/etc/nginx/mechanic-overrides/myshortname/proxy
```

The first one is loaded inside the main `location` block, and is a good place to add something like CORS headers for static font files.

The second one is loaded inside the proxy server configuration.

These files start out empty; you can add whatever you like.

Of course, if this isn't enough flexibility for your needs, you can create a custom template.

## Refreshing your nginx configuration

Maybe you updated mechanic with `npm update -g mechanic` and you want our
latest configuration. Maybe you edited your custom template. Either way,
you want to rebuild your nginx configuration without changing any
settings:

```
mechanic refresh
```

## Resetting to the defaults

To completely reset mechanic, throwing away everything it knows:

```javascript
mechanic reset
```

*Warning:* like it says, this will completely reset your configuration and forget everything you've done. Don't do that unless you really want to.

## Listing your configuration settings

`mechanic list`

This gives you back commands sufficient to set them up the same way again. Great for copying to another server. Here's some sample output:

```
mechanic set restart "/usr/sbin/nginx -s reload"
mechanic add test --host=test.com --aliases=www.test.com --canonical=true --https=true
mechanic add test2 --host=test2.com --aliases=www.test2.com,test2-prelaunch.mycompany.com
```

If you want to wipe the configuration on another server before applying these commands there, use `mechanic reset`.

## Custom nginx templates

You don't have to use our nginx configuration template.

Take a look at the file `template.conf` in the `nginx` npm module. It's just a [nunjucks](http://mozilla.github.io/nunjucks/) template that builds an `nginx` configuration based on your `mechanic` settings.

## Storing the database in a different place

It's stored in `/var/lib/misc/mechanic.json`. That's [one hundred percent correct according to the filesystem hierarchy standard](http://www.pathname.com/fhs/pub/fhs-2.3.pdf), adhered to by all major Linux distributions and many other flavors of Unix. But if you absolutely insist, you can use the `--data` option to specify another location. You'll have to do it every time you run `mechanic`, though. That's why we only use this option for unit tests.

If necessary `mechanic` will create `/var/lib/misc`.

## Credits

`mechanic` was created to facilitate our work at [P'unk Avenue](http://punkave.com). We use it to host sites powered by [Apostrophe](https://apostrophenow.org).

## Changelog

0.1.11: parse `host:port` correctly with the `--backends` option.

0.1.10: the `boring` dependency was missing, this is fixed.

0.1.9: Accept `backend` as an alias for `backends`. Reject invalid hyphenated options passed to `add` and `update`, as their absence usually means you've mistyped something important. Don't crash nginx if there are no backends, just skip that site and print a warning. Use [boring](https://www.npmjs.com/package/boring) instead of `yargs`.

0.1.8: load convenience overrides from suitably named nginx configuration files.

0.1.7: set the ssl flag properly for nginx in the listen statement.

0.1.6: look in the documented place for SSL certificates (/etc/nginx/certs).

0.1.5: don't try to reject invalid arguments, as yargs helpfully introduces camel-cased versions of hyphenated arguments, causing false positives and breaking our hyphenated options. This isn't great; we should find out how to disable that behavior in yargs.

0.1.3: corrected documentation for Apache fallback strategy.

0.1.1, 0.1.2: `reset` command works.

0.1.0: initial release.
